feat: MinK GA release (#5704)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/mesh-manager/service-mesh.md

---
title: Create a service mesh
content_type: how-to
beta: true
---

> Creating a fully-functioning {{site.mesh_product_name}} deployment in {{site.konnect_short_name}} involves the following steps:

Reviewer: What's the rationale of this doc? looks to 99% the same as: app/konnect/getting-started/configure-mesh.md

Author: @lahabana This doc's purpose is just to provide a general "how to" like we do for other features in Konnect while the getting started Mesh doc is more opinionated and geared for getting people up and running quickly with mesh.

---
title: Create a mesh
content_type: how-to

> beta: true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
beta: false
```

## Prerequisites

* A Kubernetes cluster with [load balancer service capabilities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer)
* `kubectl` installed and configured to communicate with your Kubernetes cluster
* [The latest version of {{site.mesh_product_name}}](/mesh/latest/production/install-kumactl/)

## Create a global control plane in {{site.konnect_short_name}}
 
1. From the left navigation menu in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, open {% konnect_icon mesh-manager %} [**Mesh Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/mesh-manager).
1. Click **New Global Control Plane**.
1. Enter `example-cp` in the **Name** field and click **Save**.

You now have a {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane. This control plane won't have any functionality until you connect a zone to it.

## Create a zone in the global control plane

After creating the global control plane, you must add a zone to that control plane. Adding a zone allows you to manage services added to that zone and send and receive configuration changes to the zone. 

> 1. Select the `example-cp` control plane you just created and then click **Create Zone**. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Select the `example-cp` control plane you just created and then click **Create Zone**. 
    
    {:.note}
    > **Note:** Mesh Manager automatically creates a [managed service account](/konnect/org-management/system-accounts/) that is only used to issue a token during the zone creation process.
```

    
    {:.note}
    > **Note:** The zone name must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters or `-`. It must also start and end with an alphanumeric character.
1. Follow the instructions to set up Helm and a secret token. 
    {{site.konnect_short_name}} will automatically start looking for the zone. Once {{site.konnect_short_name}} finds the zone, it will display it. 

You now have a very basic {{site.mesh_product_name}} service mesh added to {{site.konnect_short_name}}. This service mesh can only create meshes and policies at the moment, so we must add services and additional configurations to it.

## Install a demo service

Now that you've added a global control plane and a zone to your service mesh in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, you can add services to your mesh. You can use the {{site.mesh_product_name}} Kubernetes demo app to set up four services so you can see how {{site.mesh_product_name}} can be used to control services, monitor traffic, and track resource status.

The demo application consists of four services:

* `frontend`: A web application that lets you browse an online clothing store

> * `backend`: A nodejs API for querying and filtering clothing items

Author: ```suggestion
* `backend`: A Node.js API for querying and filtering clothing items
```

## Configure `kumactl` to connect to your global control plane

`kumactl` is a CLI tool that you can use to access {{site.mesh_product_name}}. It can create, read, update, and delete resources in {{site.mesh_product_name}} in Universal/{{site.konnect_short_name}} mode.

You connect `kumactl` to the global control plane in {{site.konnect_short_name}} so that you can run commands against the control plane.

1. From the left navigation menu in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, open {% konnect_icon mesh-manager %} [**Mesh Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/mesh-manager) and select the `example-cp` control plane.
1. Select **Configure kumactl** from the **Global Control Plane Actions** dropdown menu and follow the steps in the wizard to connect `kumactl` to the control plane.
1. Verify that the services you added from the previous section with the Kubernetes demo app are running correctly:
```bash
kumactl get dataplanes
```
If your data planes were configured correctly with the demo app, the output should return all four data planes. 

> You can now issue commands to your global control plane using `kumactl`. You can see the [`kumactl` command reference](/mesh/latest/generated/cmd/kumactl/kumactl/) for more information about the commands you can use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now issue commands to your global control plane using `kumactl`. You can see the [`kumactl` command reference](/mesh/latest/generated/cmd/kumactl/kumactl/) for more information about the commands you can use.
```
This URL 404s and not sure if https://deploy-preview-5704--kongdocs.netlify.app/mesh/latest/explore/cli/#kumactl is the correct replacement?

Author: Yep! I've just fixed it now

---
title: Configure a Mesh Global Control Plane with the Kubernetes demo app
content_type: tutorial

> beta: true

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```
I believe this should be off right?

---

> Using Mesh Manager, you can create {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control planes to manage your {{site.konnect_saas}} mesh services. This guide explains how to configure a global control plane with {{site.mesh_product_name}} and the Kubernetes demo app. You will use Kubernetes to install various service mesh components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using Mesh Manager, you can create {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control planes to manage your {{site.konnect_saas}} mesh services.This guide explains how to configure a global control plane with {{site.mesh_product_name}} and then you will install the Kubernetes demo app so you can start interfacing with Mesh in {{site.konnect_saas}}
```
Or something like this.

> {:.important}

Reviewer 3: I don't think this needs to be an `important` highlight. I think it can just be part of the paragraph. 
```suggestion

```

> > **Important:** Mesh zones are priced based on consumption. For more information about the pricing and consumption of zones, see Kong's [Pricing](https://konghq.com/pricing) page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mesh zones are priced based on consumption. For more information about the pricing and consumption of zones, see Kong's [Pricing](https://konghq.com/pricing) page.
```

## Prerequisites

> * [A Kubernetes cluster with load balancer service capabilities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types)
> * [`kubectl` installed and configured to communicate with your Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
> * [Download the latest version of {{site.mesh_product_name}}](/mesh/latest/production/install-kumactl/)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* A Kubernetes cluster with [load balancer service capabilities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#loadbalancer)
* `kubectl` installed and configured to communicate with your Kubernetes cluster
* [The latest version of {{site.mesh_product_name}}](/mesh/latest/production/install-kumactl/)
```

More explicit links, removed the kubectl link.

## Create a global control plane in {{site.konnect_short_name}}
 
1. From the left navigation menu in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, open {% konnect_icon mesh-manager %} [**Mesh Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/mesh-manager).
1. Click **New Global Control Plane**.

> 1. Enter "example-cp" in the **Name** field and click **Save**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Enter `example-cp` in the **Name** field and click **Save**.
```

You now have a {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane. This control plane won't have any functionality until you connect a zone to it.

## Create a zone in the global control plane

After creating the global control plane, you must add a zone to that control plane. Adding a zone allows you to manage services added to that zone and send and receive configuration changes to the zone. 

1. Select the `example-cp` control plane you just created and then click **Create Zone**. 
1. Enter "zone-1" in the **Name** field for the new zone, and then click **Create Zone & generate token**. 
    
    {:.note}
    > **Note:** The zone name must consist of lower case alphanumeric characters or `-`. It must also start and end with an alphanumeric character.

> 1. Follow the instructions that display to set up Helm and a secret token. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Follow the instructions to set up Helm and a secret token. 
```

>     Once {{site.konnect_short_name}} finds the newly created zone, it will display it. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    {{site.konnect_short_name}} will automatically start looking for the zone, once {{site.konnect_short_name}} finds the zone, it will display it. 
```
I think the piece about it looking for it is important, but feel free to ignore this.

You now have a very basic {{site.mesh_product_name}} service mesh added to {{site.konnect_short_name}}. This service mesh can only create meshes and policies at the moment, so we must add services and additional configurations to it.

> ## Add services to your service mesh using the Kubernetes demo app

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Install a demo service
```

1. Click **New Control Plane** and complete the fields as needed.
1. Select the control plane you just created, and then click **Zones** in the sidebar.
1. Click **Create Zone**, configure the fields as needed, and follow the steps in the wizard to connect your zone to {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
   
     {:.note}

>     > **Note:** Mesh Manager automatically creates a [managed service account](/konnect/org-management/system-accounts/) that is only used in the zone creation process. 

Reviewer: I'd say it's used to issue a token during the zone creation process. Because in practice this account is how zones auth

Reviewer 4: +1, I thought I added a comment like this as well but I can't find it now :facepalm:

Author: Fixed this in the system accounts page.

>     > **Note:** Mesh Manager automatically creates a [managed service account](/konnect/org-management/system-accounts/) that is only used in the zone creation process. 

Author: ```suggestion
    > **Note:** Mesh Manager automatically creates a [managed service account](/konnect/org-management/system-accounts/) that is only used to issue a token during the zone creation process. 
```
